fix: Customization Custom Action (#653)
ZupIT/beagle-docs: content/en/ios/customization/custom-actions/async-custom-action.md

---
title: Asynchronous Custom Action
weight: 3
description: Creating an asynchronous custom action
---

---

**Requirements:**

>  - Have a project set up with Beagle.
>  - Have done the example for [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 -  A project set up with Beagle.
 - You need to have done the example for [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
If you don't know what an action is, check the [**What is an action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="pt" >}}) section.
{{% /alert %}}

### Asynchronous custom action:

To create an asynchronous custom action in Beagle that works like an API just create an `action` normally like the example in [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}) and implement the `AsyncAction` interface.

> After creating an action, you must implement the `AsyncAction` interface. That will request that an execute method and the onFinish parameter are implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating an action, you must implement the `AsyncAction` interface. It will request to execute a method and the onFinish parameter will be implemented.
```

```swift
struct CustomAction: AsyncAction {

        var onFinish: [Action]?

        func execute(controller: BeagleController, origin: UIView) {

        }
    }
```

> Now we **MUST** notify when its execution is completed by triggering the `onFinish` action.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you **MUST** notify when its execution is completed by triggering the `onFinish` action.

```

```swift
    controller.execute(actions: self.onFinish, origin: origin)
```

Here follows an Asynchronous Custom Action example:

```swift
struct CustomAction: AsyncAction {

        var onFinish: [Action]?

        func execute(controller: BeagleController, origin: UIView) {
                print("Custom action was called")

                controller.execute(actions: self.onFinish, origin: origin)
        }
    }
```

Your action is now configured to perform any tasks asynchronously!

{{% alert color="success" %}}

> To learn how to register and use a new action, check the steps 3 and 4 on the [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}) example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to register and use a new action, check the steps 3 and 4 in the [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}) example.
```

---
title: Asynchronous Custom Action
weight: 3
description: Creating an asynchronous custom action
---

---

**Topics covered:**
- Create an asynchronous custom action:

 
**Requirements:**

>  - Have a project already set up with Beagle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Have a project set up with Beagle.
```

>  - Having passed by example [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Have done the example for [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}

> If you don't know what an action is [**What is an action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="pt" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't know what an action is, check the [**What is an action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="pt" >}}) section.
```

{{% /alert %}}

### Asynchronous custom action:

> To create a custom action in Beagle whose execution is asynchronous like consuming an API or accessing a database, just create an `action` normally like the example [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}) and implement the `AsyncAction` interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an asynchronous custom action in Beagle that works like an API just create an `action` normally like the example in [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}) and implement the `AsyncAction` interface.
```

With the action created, just linking the `AsyncAction` interface will request that the method execute and the parameter onFinish be implemented.

```swift
struct CustomAction: AsyncAction {

        var onFinish: [Action]?

        func execute(controller: BeagleController, origin: UIView) {

        }
    }
```

> Now, with the action ready to run asynchronously, we **MUST** notify when its execution is complete by executing the `onFinish` action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we **MUST** notify when its execution is completed by triggering the `onFinish` action.
```

> Now, with the action ready to run asynchronously, we have to **MUST** notify when its execution is complete by executing the `onFinish` action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, with the action ready to run asynchronously, we **MUST** notify when its execution is complete by executing the `onFinish` action.
```

```swift
    controller.execute(actions: self.onFinish, origin: origin)
```

> See the Asynchronous Custom Action example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here follows an Asynchronous Custom Action example.
```

```swift
struct CustomAction: AsyncAction {

        var onFinish: [Action]?

        func execute(controller: BeagleController, origin: UIView) {
                print("Custom action was called")

                controller.execute(actions: self.onFinish, origin: origin)
        }
    }
```

> Your action is now configured to perform any work asynchronously!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your action is now configured to perform any tasks asynchronously!
```

{{% alert color="success" %}}

> To learn how to register and use this new action, see step 3 and 4 of the example [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn how to register and use a new action, see step 3 and 4 of the example [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).
```

> To learn how to register and use this new action and see step 3 and 4 of the example [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn how to register and use this new action, see step 3 and 4 of the example [**Custom Action**]({{< ref path="/ios/customization/custom-actions/custom-action" lang="en" >}}).
```
